# Earnings recaps: JNJ, JPM, KMX, and WFC

# From

"Vital Knowledge" <updates@vitalknowledge.net>

# 内容

Earnings recaps: JNJ, JPM, KMX, and WFC

- JNJ (Johnson & Johnson) reported very modest upside on Q1 EPS ($2.70 vs. the Street $2.69) and sales ($24.06B vs. the Street $23.65B) and the full-year guidance is tweaked higher (they now see adjusted operational sales +6.1% vs. the prior +5.9% w/EPS of $11.55 vs. the prior $11.53). Revenue was a bit ahead of plan in both pharma ($15.42B vs. the Street $15.07B) and MedTech ($8.63B vs. the Street $8.54B). The company has scheduled an analyst meeting for Dec 8.
- JPM (JPMorgan) reported solid EPS upside in Q1 at 5.94, with the beat driven by higher revenue ($50.5B vs. the Street $49.26B; both NII and non-interest income were a bit better, although the NIM fell short) and lower provisions ($2.5B vs. the Street $3.1B) while the efficiency ratio was about inline . The company performed well on loans (+11%) and deposits (+7%), and credit quality remains healthy. Within the investment bank, trading came in above plan , including FICC (+21% to $7.08B vs. the Street $6.65B) and Equities (+17% to $4.48B vs. the Street $4.3B), and they also saw robust growth in Securities Services (+18% to $1.5B), Payments (+12%), and IB fees (+28% Y/Y). The company is reiterating its prior full-year guidance for NII ex-markets and expenses (the overall NII outlook was tweaked down from ~$104.5B to $103B). Jamie’s macro commentary is largely consistent w/his recent annual shareholder letter (“The U.S. economy remained resilient in the quarter, with consumers still earning and spending and businesses still healthy. Several tailwinds are supporting this resiliency, including increased fiscal stimulus, the benefits of deregulation, AI-driven capital investment and the Fed's asset purchases. At the same time, there is an increasingly complex set of risks— such as geopolitical tensions and wars, energy price volatility, trade uncertainty, large global fiscal deficits and elevated asset prices”).
- KMX (CarMax) reported upside on FQ4 adjusted EPS at 34c (vs. the Street 23c), w/the beat driven by higher revenue ($5.95B vs. the Street $5.7B) and expense controls (SG&A excluding items fell 5.4% Y/Y).
- WFC (Wells Fargo) reported modest EPS upside at 1.60 (vs. the Street 1.58), w/the beat driven by expense controls (expenses rose 3% while revenue advanced 6%) and (primarily) a lower tax rate (the effective tax rate was 11.6%) while total revenue fell a bit short ($21.4B vs. the Street $21.75B, w/shortfalls in both NII/NIM and non-interest income; the NIM missed by ~10bp at 2.47%) and provisions were about inline . The company performed well on loans (+10%) and deposits (+6%), and credit quality in aggregate was relatively stable (although NPAs rose ~$265MM Q/Q due to an increase in C&I, partially offset by lower CRE accrual loans). The full-year guidance is reiterated for both NII and expenses . Charlie Scharf’s macro commentary points to resiliency (“While markets have been volatile, we still see continued resiliency in the underlying economy and the financial health of the consumers and businesses we serve remains strong, though the impact of higher oil prices will likely take some time to materialize”).