# Heard on the Street

CPU Sector Update

Companies mentioned: Intel, AMD, TSMC

# Stefan Chang

+852 2534 7401

stefan.chang@aletheia-capital.com

# Warren Lau

+852 2534 7404

Warren.lau@aletheia-capital.com

# SECTOR LEADS

# Jonathan Wilmot

Global Strategy

# Jim Walker

Asianomics

# David Scott

Asia Strategy

# Keith Woolcock

Tech Thematics

# Denise Cai

China Internet

# Prashant Gokhale

Energy

# Sanjay Jain

Financials

# Warren Lau

Technology Hardware

# A read-through of Intel & AMD’s guidance

Following Intel’s FY2020 guidance last week, AMD provided its FY2020 outlook yesterday. The most important takeaway for AMD is that all its products will still have 2yr+ node advantage against Intel’s, which could explain why AMD is confident about its continuous market share gains across the board. Both companies’ guidance for their GMs implies intensifying price competition for CPUs in 2H20, while Intel has also guided a moderate seasonality for the PC and server markets in 2H20. Lastly, Intel’s updated 7nm schedule suggests its CPU outsourcing, if any, will be just moderate. Key AMD suppliers include TSMC (foundry), Tongfu (OSAT), Advantest (tester), and AsMedia (chipset).

# AMD’s node advantage against Intel to last for another 2+ years

Intel has deployed its 10nm-fabricated NB CPU in 4Q19. Based on the newly released product roadmap, its 10nm server CPU will hit the market by 2H20, while its DT CPU will skip 10nm and enter 7nm directly in 2022. AMD already has its full product line at TSMC’s 7nm (game console APU in 2H20), and we believe it will migrate to 7+/5nm for its server CPUs in 2Q20 (Milan) and 1H21, 7+ for its GPUs in 2H20, and 7+ or 6nm for its DT/NB CPUs in late-2020 or early 2021. This suggests AMD should still have node advantage against Intel for all product lines but NB CPUs before 2022.

# AMD guides further market shares gain

AMD guided 2020 sales to grow by 28-30% YoY or \$2b revenue growth. Excluding game console APUs, which will be back-end loaded (1H20/2H20 will be 20/80), AMD expects its other sales to grow by 20%+ YoY (\$1.3-1.5b we believe), with server CPUs growing the fastest. This compares with Intel’s expectation of high-single-digit % YoY growth for PC CPU shipments and DCG sales. AMD believes it is on track to meet the 10%+ target for server CPU market share in mid-2020, while it will also continue to gain shares of the DT/NB CPU market. In fact, we believe AMD is already guiding conservatively to avoid the history of its 2019 guidance cut in 3Q19 repeating itself amid several macro uncertainties.

# Pricing pressure to rise

Intel guided a 61% GM in 1Q20 and 59% for the full year, citing price erosion and 10nm expansion as the major reasons. Coincidentally, AMD also guided a 46% GM for 1Q20 and 45% for full year. It attributes its game console APU ramp up in 2H20 and price erosion for exiting products as the key reasons for lower GMs in 2H20. We believe Intel is becoming more aggressive in pricing to defend its market shares, while muted HoH PC growth in 2H20 guided by both Intel and AMD could intensify the price erosion. Notably, both Intel and AMD guided a flat-to-down PC market this year despite their own YoY growth expectations, and 2H20 PC unit HoH growth will be sub-seasonal. Intel’s growth is largely to replenish its own inventory, but we will see how these two firms adjust their own or the market outlook throughout the year.

# Implications for the server market

Intel expects its data-centric sales growth to moderate after 1Q20, the third consecutive quarter of aggressive build-up by cloud customers. For the full year, it expects its data-centric sales to grow by the high-single-digits % YoY with DCG sales (CPUs and adjacencies) growth to be slightly lower. Put in a numbers perspective, Intel’s data-centric sales and DCG sales amounted to \$35b and \$24b in 2019, and its 1Q20/2020 guidance suggested 1Q20/2020 data-centric sales to be around \$7.3b/38b. 1Q20 data centric sales will be -28% QoQ and +25% YoY based on the guidance.

On the contrary, AMD’s 10%+ target for market share for its server CPUs in mid-2020 implies sequential growth for the next two quarters (if not longer). We believe cloud customers such as Google and Amazon remain the key drivers, while AMD indicated OEM orders have also kicked in. Importantly, AMD’s data centre-related revenue scale remains relatively small at only \~\$300m in 4Q19 (which CPU accounted for \~\$250m, we believe), or 3% of Intel’s revenue scale. Intel’s guidance still has more meaningful implications for the overall market, while AMD’s robust growth is driven by its market share gains story.

# Implications to TSMC and Qualcomm from Intel

Intel plans to expand its combined 14nm and 10nm capacity by 25% YoY in 2020 to ease the CPU supply shortage, hopefully in 2H20. In the meantime, it budgets a record capex of \$17b, with more than half for 7nm and 5nm, while it also indicates 7nm mass production will happen before end-2021. This is supported by ASML’s 4Q19 EUV tools bookings where Intel contributed the majority. Whether Intel will outsource its CPU fabrication to foundry has been the key catalyst for us to turn more constructive on TSMC. While TSMC will continue to benefit from AMD’s gain, Intel’s 7nm roadmap and 14nm/10nm expansion suggest its CPU production outsourcing may not happen anytime soon or will be just at a moderate scale if it does happen. Notably, Intel has historically outsourced 20-25% of its product fabrication, but mainly in the non-IAA and non-CPU products. We estimate every 10% of Intel’s outsourcing of CPU fabrication will contribute 4% to TSMC’s sales on 2022F basis. We had detailed discussion about Intel’s outsourcing strategy and impact on TSMC.

Intel also suggested its modem business will fade away in 2H20, echoing our view that Qualcomm will supply 100% of 2020’s new iPhone modems.

# Key AMD suppliers in Asia

For investors who want to peg AMD’s growth in Asia, TSMC is AMD’s key foundry partner. We estimate AMD will become TSMC’s largest customer at its 7nm or a top-3 customer for the company in 2020 with a 7-9% revenue contribution. We rate TSMC shares as a HOLD from a cyclical perspective. Other key names with AMD exposure in the region include TongFu (OSAT), Advantest (tester), and AsMedia (chipset).

FIGURE 1: KEY PRODUCT ROADMAP FOR INTEL AND AMD\* 

<table><tr><td></td><td>1H20</td><td>2H20</td><td>1H21</td><td>2H21</td><td>1H22</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">Intel</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>10nm</td><td>10nm</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td>NB CPU</td><td>Xeon CPU</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td>5G base station SoC</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td>AI inference accelerator</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Discrete GPU</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td colspan="5">10nm+</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td>NB CPU</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td colspan="5">7nm</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>Discrete CPU (Ponte Vecchio)</td><td>PC CPUs</td></tr><tr><td colspan="6">AMD*</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>7nm</td><td>7nm</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td>NB CPU</td><td>Game console APU</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td colspan="5">7nm+</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td>Server CPU</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td>Gaming GPU</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td colspan="5">7nm+/6nm</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>DT/NB CPU</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td colspan="5">5nm</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>Server CPU</td><td></td><td></td></tr></table>

Source: Company data, Aletheia Capital, TAG \*foundry at TSMC

# Firm Disclosures

Aletheia Capital Ltd ("Aletheia") is a limited company registered in Hong Kong, company number 2657920, located at Level 28 AIA, 1 Connaught Road, Central, Hong Kong.

Aletheia Capital (Hong Kong) Ltd is a limited company registered in Hong Kong and is a wholly owned subsidiary of Aletheia and is regulated by the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission.

Aletheia Capital (Singapore) Pte. Ltd is a limited company registered in Singapore, UEN 201823248E, and is a wholly owned subsidiary of Aletheia Capital (Hong Kong) Ltd and is an Exempt Financial Adviser as defined in the Financial Advisers Act and regulated by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.

Aletheia Analyst Network Ltd is a limited company registered in Hong Kong and is a wholly owned subsidiary of Aletheia and is regulated by the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission, is a registered investment advisor with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, Firm Reference Number 794762.

This report was prepared by Aletheia and its above affiliates and is published and distributed by Aletheia Analyst Network Ltd.

Additional information will be made available upon request.

# Analyst Certification and Disclosures

The analyst(s) named in this report certifies that (i) all views expressed in this report accurately reflect the personal views of the analyst(s) with regard to any and all of the subject securities and companies mentioned in this report and (ii) no part of the compensation of the analyst(s) was, is, or will be, directly or indirectly, related to the specific recommendation or views expressed by that analyst herein.

The analyst(s) named in this report (or their associates) does not have a financial interest in the corporation(s) mentioned in this report.

# Disclaimer

This report is for the use of intended recipients only and may not be reproduced, in whole or in part, or delivered or transmitted to any other person without our prior written consent. By accepting this report, the recipient agrees to be bound by the terms and limitations set out herein. The report is prepared for professional investors only whose business involves the acquisition, disposal or holding of securities, whether as principal or agent and must not be re-distributed to retail clients. The information contained in this report has been obtained from public sources believed to be reliable and the opinions contained herein are expressions of belief based on such information. Except as expressly set forth herein or in recipient’s subscription agreement, no representation or warranty, express or implied, is made that such information or opinions is accurate, complete or verified and it should not be relied upon as such. Nothing in this report constitutes a representation that any investment strategy or recommendation contained herein is suitable or appropriate to a recipient’s individual circumstances or otherwise constitutes a personal recommendation. It is published solely for information purposes, it does not constitute an advertisement, a prospectus or other offering document or an offer or a solicitation to buy or sell any securities or related financial instruments in any jurisdiction. Information and opinions contained in this report are published for the reference of the recipients and are not to be relied upon as authoritative or without the recipient’s own independent verification or taken in substitution for the exercise of the recipient’s own judgement. All opinions contained herein constitute the views of the analyst(s) named in this report, they are subject to change without notice and are not intended to provide the sole basis of any evaluation of the subject securities and companies mentioned in this report. Any reference to past performance should not be taken as an indication of future performance. Except in the case of fraud, gross negligence or willful misconduct, or except as otherwise set forth in recipient’s subscription agreement, the firm does not accept any liability whatsoever for any direct or consequential loss arising from any use of the materials contained in this report.