# Heard on the Street

Thematic Report

Companies mentioned: Largan, LG Innotek, Sony and Sunny Optical

# Birdy Lu

+852 2534 7401

Birdy.lu@aletheia-capital.com

# Stefan Chang

+852 2534 7401

Stefan.chang@aletheia-capital.com

# What’s a 108MP camera for?

We used to think any smartphone with a 20MP+ camera was a waste of resources. A 20MP+ camera costs more, occupies more space, leads to a protruding lens, needs more memory, has a reduced pixel size (poor low-light) and consumes more power, while the resolution of a top-notch smartphone display doesn’t even exceed 5MP. Now, we have changed our mind, with both Xiaomi CC9 Pro and Samsung Galaxy 20 Plus (both having 108MP CISs) drawing positive reviews. What matters more – leveraging technologies such as pixel binning and hybrid optical zoom ‒ a 108MP CIS can enhance the camera in lowlight and optical zoom, two key metrics that consumers value a lot nowadays. In the future, we expect the MP migration war to heat up again, which not only helps the camera supply chain (CIS, lens, and VCM/OIS), but also helps AP, memory and other components. Sony, Largan, LG Innotek and Sunny are our preferred names in camera supply.

Why did we change our mind on high MP cameras? Resolution, optical zoom, low-light and perception

We summarize the key advantages of a high MP camera below:

1. Higher image resolution (capturing a greater amount of details)   
2. Higher degree of optical zoom (via technologies like hybrid optical zoom)   
3. Low-light performance enhancement (via pixel binning)   
4. Lastly, but probably the most important of all, a high MP camera leaves consumers with a better perception (i.e. the more the better)

Please see our November 8 report (titled “How 5-cam and 8P lens helped Xiaomi’s CC9 Pro become a camera champion”) for more details about how a 108MP CIS helps Xiaomi CC9 Pro to preserve the fine details of image and achieve the best scores (by then) in DxOMark’s camera review.

In this report, we will mainly discuss the second and the third points.

# How does a high MP camera help expand the degree of optical zoom?

Taking the just-released its Galaxy S20 Ultra as an example, Samsung claims it can deliver up to 10x no-loss (or little-loss, to be precise) optical zoom (vs the iPhone 12 Max/Max Pro’s 2x, Huawei P30 Pro’s 5x and Xiaomi CC9 Pro’s 5x).

However, the focal length of its 48MP telephoto camera lens (achieved by the periscope design) is only 4x that of its 108MP main camera lens. So where does that extra 6x optical zoom come from? Samsung achieves this with “hybrid optical zoom” technology. This technology mainly plays two tricks: First, the 48MP telephoto camera will do image cropping on the fly, image sharpening (by AI) and then image matching. Secondly, the 108MP main camera will kick in at the same time and help to capture more detail.

With this methodology, two high resolution cameras are required to deliver good results from high degree optical zoom.

# How can a high MP camera help to improve low light performance?

According to conventional wisdom, a high MP camera could capture more image data but could sacrifice low-light performance, as a high MP CMOS image sensor (CIS) tends to come in with a smaller pixel size (it needs to pack a much larger number of pixels within a slightly larger area).

So how can a re-designed high MP camera prove the conventional wisdom wrong? Again, let’s take the Samsung Galaxy S20 Ultra as an example. In dim light, it will adopt 9-in-1 pixel binning technology (in simple terms, Samsung merges 9 smaller pixels to 1 ultra-big pixel) to capture more light and improve low-light performance. On the flipside, this reduces the image resolution from 108MP to 12MP. However, please bear in mind, a 12MP image is already good enough, as the resolution of most smartphones/laptop displays, PC monitors and TVs are actually way below 8MP.

Pixel binning is the process of combining the electric signal from multiple adjacent pixels into one pixel on a CIS. This technology creates a virtual super-pixel, which helps to reduce noise by increasing the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) in digital cameras.

Figure 1: Camera spec com table of flagship devices 

<table><tr><td colspan="2">Samsung Galaxy S20 Ultra</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Rear cam</td></tr><tr><td>Main</td><td>108 MP, 8P lens, f/1.8, 26mm, 1/1.33&quot;, 0.8μm, PDAF, OIS</td></tr><tr><td>10x hybrid optic</td><td>48 MP, f/3.6, 102mm, 1/2.0&quot;, 0.8μm, PDAF, OIS, 10x hybrid optical zoom</td></tr><tr><td>Ultrawide</td><td>12 MP, 7P lens, f/2.2, 13mm, 1.4μm, AF,</td></tr><tr><td>Depth</td><td>0.3 MP, TOF 3D, (depth)</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Front cam</td></tr><tr><td>Main</td><td>40 MP, f/2.2, 26mm (wide), 0.7μm, PDAF</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Samsung Galaxy S20+</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Rear cam</td></tr><tr><td>Main</td><td>12 MP, 7P lens, f/1.8, 26mm, 1/1.76&quot;, 1.8μm, Dual Pixel PDAF, OIS</td></tr><tr><td>Telephoto lens</td><td>64 MP, 6P lens, f/2.0, (telephoto), 0.8μm, PDAF, OIS, 3x hybrid optical zoom</td></tr><tr><td>Ultrawide</td><td>12 MP, 7P lens, f/2.2, 13mm, 1.4μm, AF,</td></tr><tr><td>Depth</td><td>0.3 MP, TOF 3D, (depth)</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Front cam</td></tr><tr><td>Main</td><td>10 MP, f/2.2, 26mm (wide), 1/3.2&quot;, 1.22μm, Dual Pixel PDAF</td></tr></table>

XiaomiCC9Pro/MiNote10Pro 

<table><tr><td colspan="2">Rear cam</td></tr><tr><td>Main</td><td>108 MP, 8P lens, f/1.7, 25mm, 1/1.33&quot;, 0.8μm, PDAF, Laser AF, OIS</td></tr><tr><td>2x Telephoto</td><td>12 MP, f/2.0, 50mm, 1/2.55&quot;, 1.4μm, Dual Pixel PDAF, Laser AF, 2x optical zoom</td></tr><tr><td>5x Telephoto</td><td>5 MP (upscaled to 8MP), f/2.0, 1.0μm, PDAF, Laser AF, OIS, 5x optical zoom</td></tr><tr><td>Ultrawide</td><td>20 MP, f/2.2, 13mm, 1/2.8&quot;, 1.0μm, Laser AF</td></tr><tr><td>Macro</td><td>2 MP, f/2.4, 1/5&quot;, 1.75μm (dedicated macro camera)</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Front cam</td></tr><tr><td>Main</td><td>32 MP, f/2.0, 0.8μm</td></tr></table>

Xiaomi Mi Note10 

<table><tr><td colspan="2">Rear cam</td></tr><tr><td>Main</td><td>108 MP, 7P lens, f/1.7, 25mm, 1/1.33&quot;, 0.8μm, PDAF, Laser AF, OIS</td></tr><tr><td>2x Telephoto</td><td>12 MP, f/2.0, 50mm, 1/2.55&quot;, 1.4μm, Dual Pixel PDAF, Laser AF, 2x optical zoom</td></tr><tr><td>5x Telephoto</td><td>5 MP (upscaled to 8MP), f/2.0, 1.0μm, PDAF, Laser AF, OIS, 5x optical zoom</td></tr><tr><td>Ultrawide</td><td>20 MP, f/2.2, 13mm, 1/2.8&quot;, 1.0μm, Laser AF</td></tr><tr><td>Macro</td><td>2 MP, f/2.4, 1/5&quot;, 1.75μm (dedicated macro camera)</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Front cam</td></tr><tr><td>Main</td><td>32 MP, f/2.0, 0.8μm</td></tr></table>

HuaweiMate305G 

<table><tr><td colspan="2">Rear cam</td></tr><tr><td>Main</td><td>40 MP, 7P lens, f/1.8, 27mm, 1/1.54&quot;, PDAF, Laser AF</td></tr><tr><td>Telephoto</td><td>8 MP, 5P lens, f/2.4, 80mm, 1/4&quot;, PDAF, Laser AF, OIS, 3x optical zoom</td></tr><tr><td>Ultrawide</td><td>16 MP, 6P lens, f/2.2, 17mm (ultrawide)</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Front cam</td></tr><tr><td>Main</td><td>24 MP, 5P, f/2.0</td></tr><tr><td>3D sensing</td><td>3D TOF camera</td></tr></table>

HuaweiMate305G 

<table><tr><td colspan="2">Rear cam</td></tr><tr><td>Main</td><td>40 MP, 7P lens, f/1.6, 27mm, 1/1.7&quot;, PDAF, OIS</td></tr><tr><td>Telephoto</td><td>8 MP, 5P lens, f/2.4, 80mm, 1/4&quot;, PDAF, OIS, 3x optical zoom</td></tr><tr><td>Ultrawide</td><td>40 MP, 7P lens, f/1.8, 18mm, 1/1.54&quot;, PDAF</td></tr><tr><td>3D sensing</td><td>3D TOF camera, 4P lens (for RX lens)</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Front cam</td></tr><tr><td>Main</td><td>32 MP, 5P lens, f/2.0</td></tr><tr><td>3D sensing</td><td>3D TOF camera</td></tr></table>

Samsung Galaxy Note10Plus 

<table><tr><td colspan="2">Rear cam</td></tr><tr><td>Main</td><td>12 MP, 6P, f/1.5-2.4, 27mm (wide), 1/2.55&quot;, 1.4μm, Dual Pixel PDAF, OIS</td></tr><tr><td>Telephoto</td><td>12 MP, 6P, f/2.1, 52mm (telephoto), 1/3.6&quot;, 1.0μm, PDAF, OIS, 2x optical zoom</td></tr><tr><td>Ultrawide</td><td>16 MP, 6P, f/2.2, 12mm (ultrawide), 1.0μm, Super Steady video</td></tr><tr><td>3D sensing</td><td>TOF 3D VGA camera</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Front cam</td></tr><tr><td>Main</td><td>10 MP, 5P, f/2.2, 26mm (wide), 1.22μm, Dual Pixel PDAF</td></tr></table>

iPhone11Max Pro 

<table><tr><td colspan="2">Rear cam</td></tr><tr><td>Main</td><td>12 MP, 6P, f/1.8, 26mm (wide), 1/2.55&quot;, 1.4μm, dual pixel PDAF, OIS</td></tr><tr><td>Telephoto</td><td>12 MP, 6P, f/2.0, 52mm (telephoto), 1/3.4&quot;, 1.0μm, PDAF, OIS, 2x optical zoom</td></tr><tr><td>Ultrawide</td><td>12 MP, 5P, f/2.4, 13mm (ultrawide)</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Front cam</td></tr><tr><td>Main</td><td>12 MP, 5P, f/2.2, 23mm (wide)</td></tr></table>

OppoReno Ace

<table><tr><td colspan="2">Rear cam</td></tr><tr><td>Main</td><td>48 MP, 7P lens, f/1.7, 26mm, 1/2.0&quot;, 0.8μm, PDAF, OIS</td></tr><tr><td>Telephoto</td><td>13MP, f/2.4, 1/3.4&quot;, 1.0μm, PDAF, 2x optical zoom</td></tr><tr><td>Ultrawide</td><td>8 MP, f/2.2, 13mm, 1/3.2&quot;, 1.4μm</td></tr><tr><td>Depth</td><td>2 MP B/W, f/2.4, 1/5&quot;, 1.75μm</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Front cam</td></tr><tr><td>Main</td><td>16 MP, f/2.0, 26mm (wide), 1/3.1&quot;, 1.0μm</td></tr></table>

Source: Company data, Aletheia Capital/TAG

# Firm Disclosures

Aletheia Capital Ltd ("Aletheia") is a limited company registered in Hong Kong, company number 2657920, located at Level 28 AIA, 1 Connaught Road, Central, Hong Kong.

Aletheia Capital (Hong Kong) Ltd is a limited company registered in Hong Kong and is a wholly owned subsidiary of Aletheia and is regulated by the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission.

Aletheia Analyst Network Ltd is a limited company registered in Hong Kong and is a wholly owned subsidiary of Aletheia and is regulated by the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission, is a registered investment advisor with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, Firm Reference Number 794762.

This report was prepared by Aletheia and its above affiliates and is published and distributed by Aletheia Analyst Network Ltd.

Additional information will be made available upon request.

# Analyst Certification and Disclosures

The analyst(s) named in this report certifies that (i) all views expressed in this report accurately reflect the personal views of the analyst(s) with regard to any and all of the subject securities and companies mentioned in this report and (ii) no part of the compensation of the analyst(s) was, is, or will be, directly or indirectly, related to the specific recommendation or views expressed by that analyst herein.

The analyst(s) named in this report (or their associates) does not have a financial interest in the corporation(s) mentioned in this report.

# Disclaimer

This report is for the use of intended recipients only and may not be reproduced, in whole or in part, or delivered or transmitted to any other person without our prior written consent. By accepting this report, the recipient agrees to be bound by the terms and limitations set out herein. The report is prepared for professional investors only whose business involves the acquisition, disposal or holding of securities, whether as principal or agent and must not be re-distributed to retail clients. The information contained in this report has been obtained from public sources believed to be reliable and the opinions contained herein are expressions of belief based on such information. Except as expressly set forth herein or in recipient’s subscription agreement, no representation or warranty, express or implied, is made that such information or opinions is accurate, complete or verified and it should not be relied upon as such. Nothing in this report constitutes a representation that any investment strategy or recommendation contained herein is suitable or appropriate to a recipient’s individual circumstances or otherwise constitutes a personal recommendation. It is published solely for information purposes, it does not constitute an advertisement, a prospectus or other offering document or an offer or a solicitation to buy or sell any securities or related financial instruments in any jurisdiction. Information and opinions contained in this report are published for the reference of the recipients and are not to be relied upon as authoritative or without the recipient’s own independent verification or taken in substitution for the exercise of the recipient’s own judgement. All opinions contained herein constitute the views of the analyst(s) named in this report, they are subject to change without notice and are not intended to provide the sole basis of any evaluation of the subject securities and companies mentioned in this report. Any reference to past performance should not be taken as an indication of future performance. Except in the case of fraud, gross negligence or willful misconduct, or except as otherwise set forth in recipient’s subscription agreement, the firm does not accept any liability whatsoever for any direct or consequential loss arising from any use of the materials contained in this report.

© 2020 Aletheia Capital Ltd