# 20260424 - Gary Vee Says the Smartest Investors Are Going Analog

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8wVmUVXsw8

# AI总结

-

# 原文

00:00 Gary Vaynerchuk from Vayner Media. Gary, how are you doing? Welcome back to the show. >> do you know about Wombos? I do not, my friend. >> You got to learn about Wombos. >> to learn about Wombos. They are the next meta. They are the next meta. If you're not doing Wombos in 2026, you're getting left behind.

00:16 >> are word combos. So, the example would be uh a a queesh is quirky and niche. You put it together and that's queesh. Or Lorraine, lore plus explain. >> that's a that's a that was a risky start for the first word. I'm Yeah, that's a risky start. Lorraine Lorraine is a better Lorraine is a better one.

00:33 Give me if I say Lorraine >> Boys, first first and foremost, congratulations. Thank you. Thank you. I really appreciate >> Thank you. Uh I remember I remember our very first call. I think it was in Q1 of 2025. So, we were just maybe like a little a little just a few months into the show and you even at that point we were very very very small.

00:56 I think we had maybe just gone live a a few times and you told us you guys you said go harder. We were already going pretty hard, but you said go harder. And uh we certainly did. So, And go multi-platform. That was really huge, too. You you you were you were very early in like why don't you have a newsletter right now?

01:16 Why aren't you on YouTube in multiple ways? Why aren't you on Instagram yet? And so, we did the uncomfortable thing of posting pretty subpar content for a while, but it started the compounding very very early and now it's stuff really much better. Everything start starts subpar, right? Like when you start working out or when you start singing or driving like you know, like I for everybody who's watching right now, every business, every personal brand, every B2B, every B2C, the to take to not take advantage of the attention media landscape that's in place right now, um it it's really incomprehensible to me.

01:56 It's there's never been a time in the history of humanity or business where the cost of distribution is zero for the distribution. It's there's costs in the content and then what do you do it, but the upside is so extraordinary against the investment. And when you frame it up properly multi-channel, multi-format, the the business outcomes could be extraordinary and I'm happy to see you guys get one.

02:20 Yeah. Thank you. Are you Is it Is it Is it funny that uh is it funny to you that that it feels like it feels like in some ways we're like a decade into live streaming and yet Two decades in by Well, yeah, two decades by some measures, but like Twitch has been big for a long time. There's been so much attention there.

02:42 >> I mean I wrote I wrote this book in 2008. It came out in '09. Crush it in the back of the book. I talk about Ustream and live streaming. Yeah, I mean, you know, it ebbs and flows and to your point like I mean I can't even comprehend the economic impact live social shopping is going to do over the next 10 years for humans and consumer businesses.

03:00 Um yeah, it's all the same stuff, brother. It's always been around forever and it's always the beginning, right? Like it's just kind of the way consumer behavior and human behavior works. Um Yeah, it does it does surprise me how many more people have not replicated the very, you know, basic digital framework that you guys executed in this genre.

03:20 It's available for Well, the interesting the interesting thing is we there's there's easily been a hundred a hundred shows that have like taken some level of inspiration from what we're doing. It's still very very hard it's still very very hard to break through, right? There's it's not just it's not just the overlay and the format, but I have been I I've been very confident.

03:42 I've said this on podcasts for you know, we've talked about this going back probably six six to eight months ago. You should take this format of a live stream and you just add an extra level of production beyond you just have a laptop there and you're hanging out and you apply that. The example we'd always talk about is like cooking where all you need is like a cool kitchen, you're that's your set, you have a couple of cameras, so you have different angles and then you just say, "Hey, every day at 3:00 p.m.

04:11 I'm going to cook dinner. This is what I'm going to cook. Here's the schedule. You can make dinner with me." And I think that that's like an entire niche that you could build around. You could integrate guests into something like that, too. So, you have different content creators coming through every day and then I think you can apply that to a bunch of other things.

04:28 Sports is on been the most advanced in terms of live streaming. Um so, credit credit to them. Yeah, I mean, it's it's it's there for the taking. A lot of things are there for the taking. Yeah. Uh how are you thinking about uh how branding and marketing will evolve. I had this interesting moment this week with the uh GBT images two launch where suddenly any brand like basically fully democratized high quality product photography.

04:58 Now, there's still categories where like I don't want you to AI generate the the product photography. Like even apparel is actually interesting where like fit matters a lot. And so, if you generate a bunch of AI images of your shirt and then I buy it and it doesn't fit well, like I'm not going to be happy about it, but for a bunch of categories it's cool.

05:18 And I was kind of have this like kind of strange moment where uh it used to be you could identify an entrepreneur's ability by their product photography in some way cuz even if somebody's like bootstrapped and scrappy, like they would find that friend and say like, "Hey, do me a favor. Help me get [cough] some great images." And you could kind of categorize like a company that you're seeing online like, "Okay, could this person figure out how to get great product photography or not?" But now the bar is just so much lower.

05:44 You're you're like a couple prompts away from it. And so, it feels like it's going to be harder than ever to stand out online. Well, I mean, there's a lot there. I mean, it's we just got done talking about how hard it is to stand out online. Right? Like like the the cost of entry is zero, but you know, this is a competition.

06:07 Like, you know, everyone's trying and so, everyone will make content, video, picture, audio at a level that is incomprehensible to all of us that were born prior to 5 minutes ago and this will be another transition. I think, you know, there's there's always going to be um a timing game to this, right?

06:31 So, right now, you know, like this open claw, you know, allows me to do things that a lot of people aren't thinking about right now and me knowing that and me playing with that and then even more interestingly, how creative or strategic am I with the agentic agents and what are they doing for me and how do I understand it blah blah blah blah blah.

06:53 So, I think it's kind of always going to be the same thing like whether it was electricity and some people put electricity in their home and other people were scared to cuz there was demons in it or, you know, car or the the you know, the typewriter is one that I've like been fascinated by the competitive advantages of the companies that actually brought typewriters in versus, you know, putting penmanship on a pedestal.

07:14 You know, like it's just and computers and the internet and mobile devices and open source versus closed source and social media. Now, AI, you know, look, this AI thing is no joke. We all know that. It's big stakes. There's a lot to it. But, you know, I still think whatever that human was to being scrappy to find their friend for the photography, you know, that scrappiness is going to be deployed into something else.

07:43 Totally. Totally. And so, I also think right? And I also think that we're about to see the explosion of analog, right? Like I think this barbell that I keep thinking about Totally. I I've been thinking like, "Okay, you want to start an apparel brand? Do you want to go on Instagram or TikTok and duke it out with like 10,000 other brands?" Or why don't you like find somebody that has a retail store that they can't rent out and like do a deal with them and just try to get big in your hometown again, you know?

08:09 >> And and my argument would be would be and. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Like to me this bar like I just extreme AI I think is creating extreme analog. I really do think it's a barbell. I think in the next 10 years, obviously it's 2036, but I feel like it's going to feel like 2050, which actually is bringing the rise of 1950.

08:29 I couldn't be more impressed with what Ari Emanuel and others are doing that are investing in all these analog businesses. I I could not be more interested in physical retail, in event-driven businesses, in concerts and venues and I I think the rise of analog. I have a restaurant business part of a restaurant group.

08:50 I keep pushing my partners who really operating, "Let's open a restaurant that makes people check in their phone as soon as they walk in. Let's put people in group tables." Like I you know, you see what's happening with flip phones. Gen Alpha buying them. We see vinyl sales. You know, I've been very at the forefront of collectibles.

09:07 I felt collectibles was something tangible and was a gateway drug to community. If you've never been to San Diego Comic-Con or the Sports Card National or Fanatics Fest. So, I think there's a lot of interesting non-digital [clears throat] realities that are coming as a counter move to the insanity of AI advancements.

09:28 We're literally within a half decade not believing a single video. Not a single [ \_\_ ] video. That's fun. The internet like >> [clears throat] >> in 5 years if we're having this video this interview right now, most of the audience is trying to figure out if we're real or not. >> [laughter] >> That is that is very real and has real substantial counter opportunities.

09:46 So, you know, the photographer who's sad when they hear that, I'm like, "No, no, no, you might actually crush in a different way." and so I'm curious to see what the counter uh scaled moves are going to be of the next decade and I think for any real entrepreneur they're not crying about AI killing them.

10:08 They're curious about what AI at scale is going to create opportunity for them. Okay. Totally. All right, let's go deeper on analog. I want your reaction to this headline that for the first time this century vinyl music sales eclipsed \$1 billion in a calendar year. Sales of vinyl records are up something like 10% in 2025.

10:33 >> Yeah, they're effectively like 10% of like global streaming revenue is just vinyl still. It's bigger than CDs. It's making a bigger comeback than other formats. What what is your What is your reaction? Is it people looking for wall decorations? Are they actually listening to the vinyl? Do you have any idea of like what we should read into that idea of this nostalgic format >> Are you Are you in your I mean, do you see my shelves here?

10:56 Like only thing I've been thinking about for the last 7-8 years or not only, but like very hot on this. Yeah, I mean, the answer is yes to both. Some of it's happening with decorative A lot of it's happening with collectibles. Even more is happening with subconscious counter push to extreme digitalization.

11:18 Mhm. Yeah. There are people This is By the way, one of the reasons we're not going to see unlimited television commercials and social media content that's just pure AI from the biggest companies in the world is every time they try to go there, you probably have touched on your show, McDonald's, others, they get such backlash cuz the whole world is so scared that AI is going to take their job that the consumer's pushing against it and then that's one part and then the second part is yeah, people are starting to do counter behavior consciously and unconsciously and and and then there's just swings of swings of trends like you know, like music sounds great in a great record player and like people are like, "Oh, this is kind of cool, too." And like it becomes behavioral.

11:57 It you know, it starts in the same stuff, you know this. It's like the Brooklyn extremists are like, "Let's go, you know, hippie cool culture." And they get their little thing in the little sub pocket and it bleeds out a little bit, then the Manhattanites feel like they're not cool anymore, so they do it to keep up with the Brooklynites and then we have that version everywhere in California, Texas and Florida and everywhere in the world.

12:19 And so it's just it's normal consumer behavior, but I it is clearly a counterpoint to extreme in-feed in-digital consumption and I think that's great. It's It speaks to the thing I most believe in, which is humans correct themselves at a level that we are unbelievably underestimating. The sheer adaptability of the human race is extraordinary.

12:44 Let's give it up for us. Uh >> Sports. I want to Well said. I want to talk about sports. >> Yeah, I mean, sports are good example. We were talking earlier, friend of the show, Josh Kushner is looking to acquire a stake in in the Giants out of out of his new eternal fund, which is basically a will seemingly be a collection of like, you know, evergreen bets that aren't that can't be disrupted by AI because I don't want to watch And then the Sphere.

13:09 The Sphere is another good example. The Sphere is another good example. >> Everyone was thinking that that was not going to go well. They were worried about the debt and the stock is up like 3x. It's done very well. How are you thinking about both opportunities in new physical locations like the Sphere and then also in the the the the more legacy brands like the San Francisco Giants, the New York Mets, the different sports franchises out there?

13:36 Yes. >> [laughter] >> I I You know, it's really interesting to tie a couple things together. This distribution channel that you and I are on right now, right? The fact that people watching. Yeah. In in a way that 40 years ago somebody would have to say, "You guys are good faces and you look good and you're charismatic and you might get a shot on this distribution." This decentralization of distribution along with with this analog and not disrupted by AI thing is why six or seven years ago I started investing very heavily in alternative sports.

14:12 So, I made a big bet on pickleball that I think is going to work out quite well. Uh you know, Unrivaled, the three-on-three basketball league, AJ and I, my brother, early investors in that. The Wiffle Ball League, the sailing league, slamball. I so I've been very aggressive on alternative sport investing, padel.

14:35 So, I'm very bullish on it. I think Josh obviously plays at a at a very heavy economic level with his funds of that nature and everyone like him and others, especially him, I have so much pride in his building cuz he's done such a great job in New York City based and we were always like envious of his success.

14:50 So, it's been great to his him thrive so much. I think all Anyone who does not realize how substantial the analog opportunities are is is really missing the plot of what's happening. And so it gets exciting. It's exciting to think that you can invest in both something that could get as big as, you know, Anthropic in an extreme digital world, but also forget about the obvious ones like the Giants or the Sphere.

15:16 I'm talking about people rolling up 900 local restaurants and building up a huge like like compounds 2x what anyone in PE would have thought because people want to go physically out and eat instead of just do seamless. You know, somebody buying up shopping malls not to make them data centers, but because they think they can make a half experiential, half old mall shopping environment that people are going to be yearning for.

15:44 Here's a left field one like the the drive-in movie theater, right? The stuff that dominated the '50s and '60s. When I say that out loud, I'm like, "Do you think a modern drive-in movie theater, which is done really well and executed super well, do you think that a lot of people would be about that life?" I think we can all agree that yes.

16:03 >> 100%. Yeah. And then what happens to the person that does 39 of those and has a real business and flips it. So, I I think it's a really cool time for a lot of us that have watched this show. We're like, "Oh, crap. We can play on either side of extreme digitalization or analog, be creative Well, yeah, the the beauty, you know, give the example of somebody making like a modern chain of drive-in movie theaters is like you get all the benefits of AI still.

16:31 You get to You get to use it for to instantly respond to any customer message and help solve problems. What about this? Now we're nerding out. What if you have 40 of them and now this is 7 years from now and you start showing your own films that you make in AI and build your own IP through your own analog distribution.

16:52 Yeah. Oh, that's a good thing. >> see I could see doing that for kids, you know, like maybe slightly lower bar, but you create your own kind of kids kids content. That's Again, a lot of things I do get more obvious later. I got made fun of writing that book, anyone can be a >> [clears throat] >> personal brand on Twitter.

17:08 Now it doesn't look so funny. >> [laughter] >> Who's laughing now? Who's laughing now? Yeah. But when I started building VaynerFriends and like building this Pokémon Sesame Street thing, yes, there was a lot of blockchain in it, but it was a lot of my smartest friends in Silicon Valley 5 years ago were like, "This AI thing is percolating." You know, it was more slang for machine learning and then it obviously got accelerated real quick, but like yeah, I believe in a lot of this stuff.

17:35 Well, speaking of people that are watching this show, there is an army of people named Ryan in the chat and they want to be acknowledged by us. So, I'll ask you a question about a Ryan from your life. Can you tell me something you learned from Ryan Serhant or Ryan Holiday or maybe Ryan Harwood? Do any of these names conjure any interesting stories or life lessons?

17:56 Yeah, the Ryan lineup is good. I mean, Ryan Harwood I've learned nothing from. Zero. Absolutely nothing. Let's just put that on the table. >> [laughter] >> Uh you know, Ryan Holiday was definitely the individual that I was like finally put a word to kind of how I was living my life, right? I know my mother's my hero.

18:16 She told me just how to be a really happy human. You know, I thought it was immigrant and I thought it was simplicity and I thought it was, you know, love and health over everything and truly truly not just cliche [ \_\_ ] but live your life that way even if you're an entrepreneur in a capitalist and want to compete.

18:30 But when Ryan Holiday started talking about being a stoic and stoicism, I was like, "Oh." Like, you know, like I was like, "Oh [ \_\_ ] that sounds like Oh, that that that's interesting." Um and so I think that uh that's one for him. Uh Serhant, you know, is a fun one for me because a lot you know, he's obviously playing at such a big personal brand level now and then he had that TV show on Bravo and then he was off the air.

19:00 You know, his curiosity and humility was amazing. Like he was always around our ecosystem and he really learned to play the playbook I've lived, you've lived, he's lived. So much of you know, now he's back on Netflix, but he had a really great era in between his television moments of really winning on social and going all in and I'm really proud of him.

19:19 And Harwood is uh is just a dear actual friend. He's family, not even friends. And so I He's taught me that uh I'm glad you I'm glad you circled back cuz I was like, "Damn, he's taking shots." >> [laughter] >> You know what? In you know, he's a Long Island boy, I'm a Jersey boy. I think anyone from our part of the world knows like taking shots to your brothers is like the ultimate form of I love you more than anything.

19:44 I I think literally from from 1985 to 2000, Yeah. 98% of the words out of my best friend's mouths was highly disrespectful in my direction. Of course, that's the best. That's the only way to do it. Uh Ryan Holiday wrote Trust Me, I'm Lying: Confessions of a Media Manipulator at 25. Should more young people write books?

20:07 I talked to some brilliant young people every day on the show. A lot of them fantasize about writing a book, but it always feels like it's something that needs to come with wisdom and needs to come with being 40, 50, 60. >> Yeah, do you get a lot of wis- But but part of it is like you're generating wisdom through writing, thinking deeply.

20:26 Do you feel like I think of it this way, man. I think it is it's weirdly back to my barbell. I think people that have something to say will probably be best at the barbell. You know, meaning it's kind of like someone's first album. You had your whole life to write it. Mhm. Right? Yeah. Yeah. And then so I don't know, for me, speaking for myself, like again, back to the books, like when I look back at that I'm like, how like and I'm really like kind of feel good about myself and we have me and me have a good relationship with each other, but even I would [laughter] like I look at it and I'm like, how the hell did you write that in 2008?

21:02 And then and then to your point, I think my nest next best piece of work will be when I'm wrapping it up and I can synthesize all the good stuff. So I would wildly encourage, especially the kind of characters you guys hang out with, they have a lot to say cuz much like I had in my youth, I saw things others couldn't see because I wasn't playing by yesterday's rules.

21:23 I always say fresh eyes are dangerous eyes. You know nothing, it makes you dangerous. You can really innovate. And then I think those people that you know, have sustained careers and can have years of wisdom and chapters have a lot to say that can really wrap up and bring value. So I think most people, if they're going to be in that game, are probably going to write their best book first and last.

21:48 Mhm. Uh you partnered up with MasterClass. Yeah. Tell us about it. Tell us about it. You know, I 15 years ago, anything that looked like MasterClass, like selling stuff, was really scammy. Like I grew up in the web 1.0 era. And like I stayed away from a lot of subscription, Patreon, OnlyFans, MasterClass.

22:09 Like selling information was really dirty in '97, '98. \$150 ebook that was straight garbage. Yeah. I I want to give MasterClass some flowers. Like when they first kind of hit the scene around that era, we were just getting into the earliest stage of where we are now, where premium content, you know, Substack, Beehiiv.

22:28 Like Now it now it's respected, which is amazing and I think it's great for a lot of individual writers and contributors. Um you know, it was really good company. Like I I like who they had for this class. It's addressing something I believe is real, which is like getting an MBA in real life and AI at a you know, pennies versus taking on extreme debt and getting an MBA from a high-class university that you think that logo is going to get you financial opportunity in a way that I believe has passed us by.

23:01 Um you know, just feels like I want to be part of things that are historically correct or, you know, are just a little more practical and common sense. And so um yeah, I mean, they've come to me a whole bunch of times. This was the first time I was like, you know what? I can join this [clears throat] crew.

23:18 I have something to say about AI marketing and and production and and the strategies of that. And and I hope that, you know, me or Cuban or any of the other people they threw at it, like get someone to stop and not take on \$300,000 in debt that's not going to be ROI positive. Mhm. Yeah. Uh well said.

23:35 What are you hearing from sort of like Fortune 500 CMOs, uh like larger company marketers around how if anything they should change in the world of AI around their marketing mix? Um I'm giggling cuz we're going to wrap up here and I'm actually going to Yeah. take your question but try to give an extraordinary amount of value to everyone that I know listens to this epic show.

24:01 It's not what they're saying. It's how they're acting, which leads me to the following sentence. Mhm. Everybody who's watching is highly invested in big companies that spend a lot of money on marketing. Your marketing department is wasting 93 cents of every dollar they spend. >> [laughter] >> Okay. We are living in such a radical transformation of the mid-funnel dominating, not the upper funnel and the lower funnel.

24:26 >> Sure. Us three right now, we're on mid-funnel. Yeah. We are producing content. >> in the mid-funnel. >> [laughter] >> I mean, look, I mean, this is what's going on in my I'm giggling. Right? This This is a production day. Yeah. This will be post-produced into creative that will go in the mid-funnel, organic social.

24:44 Yep. And the pieces that do well will go up for brand and down for performance. Mhm. Every brand on Earth should be spending 20% of their entire marketing budget just on social media organic production because the mid-funnel TikTokification of social has eaten up the world and we should spend no media dollars against creative that we're guessing for the big campaign.

25:05 Mhm. And then when I tell you every Fortune 5000 company is still doing guessing in the upper funnel, sponsorships, ridiculous [ \_\_ ] And then the lower funnel, 2016 AB testing beta frameworks when the mid-funnel ate up the whole world. And you guys are winning, Ruins is winning and any personal brand and many other businesses.

25:25 And so that doesn't even get into the AI of it all. That to me is tooling and infrastructure to be great at what I just said. >> Yeah. Um but Jesus, there's a lot of money being wasted by the companies representing the eyeballs that are watching the show right now and that makes me sad. Yeah. Makes a lot of sense.

25:45 I I I can't stand wasted marketing spend. Yeah, blood makes my blood boil. Well, thank you so much for taking the time to come chat with us. Congrats on the >> We barely got to talk about live commerce. Yeah, there's a lot We'll get that update next time. Yeah, we you need everybody here Anybody selling to the consumer needs to understand that China's going to do a trillion in GMV, a trillion in GMV this year in stuff sold.

26:13 And and TikTok Shop and whatnot are doing real numbers in in the US. Mhm. And Meta's clearly going to be popping off any second with what they're going to do, which will lead YouTube to do what they're going to do. >> Sorry, I know you got to leave, but give me your 30-second outlook on TikTok post kind of acquisition change in ownership.

26:35 How is the platform changing and what's your outlook? There's I felt nothing. I haven't done any real homework on any like corporate structure or what is going to be the vibe. I know, but but will the new owner will the new owners be willing to like subsidize TikTok Shop is kind of what I'm getting at.

26:54 Um they they don't need to. It actually works on merit. Okay. >> You only need to subsidize shitty [ \_\_ ] Mhm. >> [laughter] >> Uh always a good time. Thank you so much for coming on the show. >> We'll talk to you soon, Gary. Goodbye. Uh later in the show, we'll be telling you about a local man who grew a 900-lb pumpkin in his backyard [music] and we'll tell you what it means for AI scaling laws.

27:20 But up next, we have [music] Humble Robotics. The founder and CEO is in the waiting room. Let's bring in Ayal Cohen to the TBP and Ultra Dom. How are you doing? >> What's going on? Great.