# 20260424 - Storytelling, Strategy, & Innovation: Shaping the Future of Filmed Entertainment | Global Conference

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QECvY9RWf6Q

# AI总结

-

# 原文

00:00 There's no question that this panel in this moment in time is one of tremendous transformation and change. Streaming is at the center of that transformation represented by many of the folks. I mean, I guess everyone here on stage is is part of that. We have questions about the future of the of the theatrical release business with an unpredictable box office, the what seems like a a resurgence going into the summer.

00:22 And now, new questions um following President Trump calling for a 100% tariff on films shot outside the US, although that has been walked back a bit. Um worth noting that the global streaming market is projected to top 100 billion dollars annually this year and this year going ahead, but overall growth in streaming has slowed.

00:44 Though this morning Disney reported um surprise addition of Disney Plus subscribers, they were expected to show a decline. Um, and we're also seeing this shift towards adup supported streaming and we have the upfronts next week which we will talk about as well. And through all of this increasing focus and spending on sports and other live events, Amazon has been part of that with some NFL rights.

01:08 So, I want to introduce our panelists quickly. Ravia Huda, president CEO of Sony Pictures Entertainment. Casey Bl, chairman and CEO of HBO and Max Content. Deborah Khan, creator and writer of The Diplomat. Mike Hopkins, head of Amazon MGM Studios and Prime Video. And at the end in the green, Pina, Igbbo Robinson, chairman, television studios, NBC Entertainment, and Peacock Scripted.

01:31 Um, to kick things off, I'd love for each of you to share what your agenda is right now, what your plans are and priorities are in this new streaming dominated unpredictable world order. So Casey, I'm going to start with you. What kind of content are you most focused on right now? What is HBO and Max?

01:57 >> Um, you know, the the the remit hasn't changed at HBO. It's still premium content. Um, I always say we've kind of had a head start on um the way we would think about shows at HBO and continue to think about them is is this TV worth paying for? that was unique, you know, 40 years ago and a lot more people are doing it, but we still just continue to think that way.

02:19 What makes it unique? Is it a different point of view? Is it a big spectacle? Is it a voice you haven't heard? Is it, you know, a lot of different ways to do it? And on the Max content, the idea is to push out from we've got HBO, we've got a great library, we've got a bunch of great new shows, but the the Max content should in theory be pushing out in terms of uh the audience that it attracts um and um brings in.

02:47 Uh and so it's kind of doing those two things. Um the the the Max strategy has been a little bit uh all over the place. Um, but I feel like now we've landed in a good spot where we know where we're headed. Everybody internally knows where we're headed. When we talk to the town, meaning agents, producers, especially with the success of The Pit, that's been a very good example of what a Max show could be in comparison to what we do at HBO.

03:17 >> And there's been a lot of talk about this idea of refocusing, not trying to be an alternative, yes, to Netflix, but more of an add-on service. Explain that a little bit. Well, I I I think it is the in the beginning of the streaming wars, everybody was going to be Netflix and Wall Street was giving value crazy valuations to everybody who said they were going to be Netflix and the spending was crazy and then kind of reality hit, I guess you could say, starting with the Netflix correction.

03:47 And I think the question then became like, how are you going to make money doing this? Um, and as you start to figure that out and as Netflix in terms of streaming platforms is so far ahead of everybody in terms of their algorithm, their knowledge of uh mix of content and things like that that you have to um you have to kind of assess where you fit in that landscape.

04:13 And one of the things we saw with Max was trying to be everything for everybody. It was just we don't have the financial firepower to do it. Unless Mike wants to give me a check and help us pay for some of our content, but we don't have the the the financial firepower to go up against Netflix or Amazon or so in that world, where do you fit?

04:34 And that's where through a lot of research and and um examining what people were using Max War, it was the scripted content, dramas, comedies, documentaries, um the Pay1 movies, and our library, the Warner Brothers library, and the HBO library. So really focusing on that. >> Um focus is always always good.

04:52 And also, welcome. This is your first time at Milk and Casey. Um I want to bring in Pina now because your responsibilities were expanded at the beginning of this year. you've overseen um TV entertainment for quite a while now, but now you're responsible for Peacock um entertainment as well. What are your priorities in this in this new world?

05:13 >> Um well, I I think um I was in charge of TV studios and yes, I've just taken on NBC Entertainment and Peacock Scripted and I now see myself as I now sit on both sides of the equation. um on the buy and sell side. Um you know, so on the studio side, you know, my job was to really determine what projects uh you know, what material we're optioning, what creators and storytellers we're going to be in business with in terms of making overall deals with.

05:44 And now on the Peacock and NBC side, uh I am determining what shows and what entertainment we want on our specific internal platforms, but I'm also helping determine what goes on external platforms. And you know, so what I really think my job is and I think the objective of this um you know, new role is for me to make decisions on an enterprisewise um basis.

06:16 I think the more the environment gets competitive, the more important all of the companies are looking at the entire enterprise and what's the best decision not just for everyone's siloed businesses, but what brings the greatest value. So that's um in the last three months those are you know that's a lot of what I've been uh focusing on and I I think sometimes it's it may be surprising decisions as to what you know the decision decision as to what stays internal right I mean maybe like a great piece of IP like day of the jackal and how we can build success around that or what goes elsewhere um you know be it to Netflix where we have four seasons on that uh platform or hacks, you know, a great partnership that we have with Casey and his team there and and shows that we've done with, you know, with Mike's team, you know, as as well.

07:15 >> Sorry, Robbie. Maybe sometime we can figure out something to do together. >> Sell you. >> Um, so yes, it's it's all of those decisions and what is going to be the greatest value for the company in the long term. >> And Mike, you recently did a little bit of a reorg. you've made big investments in sports uh with NFL and Thursday nights.

07:35 You have so many original shows that you're producing overseas um really I think second only to to Netflix in that arena and um and you have this growing ad business. So what are your priorities right now? What was behind the reorg? >> It's a great question. Um well we're really focused on pay playing a slightly different game than than than the other streamers.

07:55 So, you know, we're we're focused on in the long run, how can we become more and more people's first choice for streaming and which I think is really becoming TV. Um, and so we don't really get that right unless we have great programming in our own right. So, our TV films, our live sports, we'll add the NBA later this fall, NASCAR uh this summer.

08:15 Um, we've got sports all over the world, whether it's English Premier League or Champions League, depending on the country. Um, but making and having our own prime original programming and exclusive programming is really important. But on top of that, what we've dis what we've learned over time is that with all of these streamers that are here and and and and all over the world, customers are confused about where to find their show, where do they find their game, and and so we put a lot of money and in time and investment in how do we bring in more partners into Prime Video um so that you can add on to your Prime subscription, whether it's it's uh Max is a big partner of ours, um uh Paramount Plus, we added Apple TV Plus last year, hoping to add more over time.

08:58 Um, and as we we see that when customers come in for whether it's Thursday night football or or the boys, um, they then decide that we have all these other all this other selection. And then when you start to add these subscriptions to your service, we start to become your first choice and when you when you think about streaming.

09:14 And so for us, building that experience um, building our user experience, our tech, our product is extremely important. Um, it's something we're investing a lot of time in. the great rebundling which I think like everyone here is part of. No, Robbie, you've been at Sony for about a year now in this this role running running things.

09:34 >> Five months. >> Only five months. >> That's all. >> I thought it's been longer. Well, it it's been feels like longer. >> Yeah, it feels like it feels like longer. So, it I would say the past five minutes feel like a year in general, but um tell me what your agenda is in this relative. >> My agenda is Yeah.

09:49 So, look, I think we're um we're in a very good place, right? Right. We're an independent studio. I think that's pretty well known. Tony Vinci set the company on that path. We're not changing that path. We think the positioning is very strong. But, you know, to add to that a little bit, as I think about it, we're very much like any other studio.

10:06 We have film, we have television, we have streaming, we have experiences. >> You have content that you're selling to streaming >> and we have streaming through Crunchyroll and through Sony Live in India. So, we are in each of those different verticals, but we do it differently. And I think the key to any business strategy is to be differentiated and to lead in your own way.

10:27 In film, we're decidedly theatrical. We're completely theatrical and then our movies go to streaming. In television, we're famously an arms dealer, right? We sell to the group here and to many others. In direct to consumer, our focus is very specific, primarily with Crunchyroll, which is entirely anime and is a very large and successful service.

10:47 And then in experiences, which is a new thing for us, it's we're doing things that are obviously not theme parks. Some of that strategy is out of necessity. It's hard to build new theme parks, but some of it is we believe you have to be different. >> And it's interesting because your streaming is I mean, you obviously sell to streaming, but your streaming is very focused as opposed to trying to be a Netflix or an Amazon.

11:09 >> It's all anime, aren't you? Yeah. Um, so finally I want to bring in Deborah and one of our panelists is unlike the other and that you represent the creative voice here. Everyone else is in an executive role and you are actually creating the content. The Diplomat is on Netflix. Um, tell us how you see your role as a writer and and a TV show creator evolving.

11:30 Um, I know you're working on your next season of The Diplomat now. Uh, I I think the job in a lot of ways is is similar to what it's always been. You're trying to for me, I've always been a fan of long form television. I like the idea that you're telling a story over time that you create a relationship.

11:50 You you kind of buy the audience's trust in the first season and then you have a relationship with them that goes on for a number of years. And you want to really honor that uh as much as you can while keeping it fresh. And we're telling a story that's about uh foreign policy. And our focus is trying to figure out kind of where the foreign policy headspace is that the country will will be in about two years from now when our new stories will come out.

12:20 So that's easy. Um but uh mostly we're just it's that question of how do you kind of stay in the headsp space of what people are interested in, what they're looking for and in certain ways that changes and in certain ways it's really the same as it was in 500 BC. So you were on the West Wing, you wrote on Grey's Anatomy for many years, and it's interesting seeing your your series now, The Diplomat has eight episodes, I think, and and so just sort of watching the format change.

12:54 I think this raises a broader question for the whole panel of how the new flexibility of the format where you're no longer with a 23 minute 30, you know, uh, sitcom that can fit a certain number of ad breaks. How that changes when you're dealing with these different formats. So for you Deborah, how has your approach to the content changed given the new the new medium?

13:19 The bio- rhythm changes of a of the story that you're telling? I've always been in one-hour drama, but when I started out broadcast television, an hour was 42 minutes. It had four commercial breaks. That gives you 12 minutes to lull an audience into a relaxed state where they're emotionally available.

13:39 And then you do something to their emotions. And then you do something that's going to make them interested enough to come back after the commercial break. Five years into my career in broadcast, they added another act break. Suddenly, television started to feel like it was slightly lower quality because we had less time to like lull you and then bing your emotions and let them settle out again before you could do it again.

14:08 Along comes in that period The Sopranos, which is a work of genius and also felt so much better because you had an hour to really go on a ride where David Chase only had to get you once per hour. Coming into streaming, it's been um a learning curve for me to both enjoy the fact that I have an hour or 45 minutes to take people on a ride, but when we get to the end of the episode, we got to ding them again so they're going to push next episode and people are watching a number of episodes at a time.

14:42 So, you know, let me tell you, you guys have it easy because you can make an episode, everybody has to wait a week, and you can repeat some of the same ideas. >> Almost like a good idea. >> It's well, you know, but you have to you have to innovate in a different way knowing that in a way you're writing one episode that's an hour long and in a way you're writing a three-hour chunk of content that people are going to watch like a movie.

15:09 I if I could just I would just say the one thing I would just take slight issue with is the notion that the quality changes because there are a few more ad breaks. I mean I I think that it is still always about being a business with the best storytellers and yes there may be one more ad break for financial considerations but I think if you look at streaming a lot of the popular shows on streaming are shows that do migrate from broadcast you know so um it's always about execution >> but but Pina now you have to decide what's a streaming show what's a peacock show and what's an NBC show and how do you determine um beyond I mean how do you determine which is which?

15:51 Well, I think that um you know sometimes it is just about the nature of the story, you know, in that obviously on NBC there are advertisers. So there may be some stories that clearly don't work within um those confines, but we have the same team who hears the pitch that hears the pitch and then makes a determination.

16:14 And I'll tell you, there have been times where someone comes in and says, "Look, this is a show we think is for streaming." And we actually say, "No, we think we should develop this for um broadcast or vice versa." Um and sometimes that's just someone might have something in their head about where they want to live, but um no, we we've we've had a couple of situations where people um come in and become something else.

16:38 I I really think it's um you know I think it is about content right is the storytelling um best served by you know perhaps we may drop this on in a in a binge format so maybe this is the kind of story that works better that way but given that all the streamers have an ad supported tier those shows are still going to have ad breaks you know in them as well so long answer short or short answer long.

17:11 It's I think sometimes it's difficult to make that determination completely, which is why I think you see broadcast shows doing well on streaming. You know, it's not it's sometimes it's just about different platforms, not necessarily the content. >> And Casey, HBO's been a hold out when it comes to this binge format, which Deborah is talking about.

17:30 It seems like it's working. At least I tuned in every Sunday night on on my streamer, you know, on the app, not on TV, to watch uh White Lotus. But will you ever drop all the episodes at once? >> No. Well, I I always I mean, I get asked this question a lot. I've been it's been asked of me for like 10 years and so I kind of say, why don't you ask Netflix why they do it that way or anybody else?

17:52 But it works for us. But a couple of things to be clear. Part of the reason we do it is we don't have the ability to have a new series every week. You know, there's a difference between dropping a new series every week and a new episode. That is a big financial difference. So, let's be clear about that.

18:08 But it has been it has um worked so many times in my experience there from Succession, Euphoria, Watchmen, Big Little Lies, um White Lotus. Every week we see the audience grow and there is an entire ecosystem of uh people who write about um do podcasts about discuss TV shows. So to not take advantage of that um I think is is crazy.

18:39 But it's been proven um to us so many times over the last 10 years that it works and that creators prefer it that way. It just works for us. I always I always also feel like it's the best of both worlds because if you don't want to watch something week by week at this point now you can go back and watch all 15 hours of the pit >> but then it's going to get spoiled for you.

19:04 So that's why people like me have to stay up late on it some >> but if if you prefer you know to watch you will be able to binge it. So if that's how you like TV shows you can do it that way. So it's the best of both worlds. It works for us. We tried it. I will tell you, we tried it one time. I think it was um it was industry the first season and we thought BBC I think wanted to do it.

19:28 I can't exactly remember and so we thought well let's try let's see what happens. So we released it all or maybe we had released one or two episodes and then decided to drop them all because it was during the pandemic. And I actually think it was one of the things that hurt the show um because it didn't have time to kind of marinate in culture and have people talk about it like season two and three have done.

19:49 So we've experimented here or there but you know we keep coming back to weekly works for us. >> It's just in this broader conversation about storytelling and how the rise of streaming is changing the content itself. It's also changing the way people consume movies and you see it where big films like Minecraft do incredibly well because it's a familiar brand that kids want to go see in a theater and then you have some surprise hits or or maybe not surprise to some but you have big hits like Sinners but there is this unpredictability now to the box office and I wonder how much that is shifting the studios represented here to to focus more on the familiar franchises and the sure things and how much you see like okay there's a certain type of movie people are going to wait and watch at home or there's a certain type of movie that they're not going to see because they'd rather stay home and stream the diplomat which in another universe would have been you know 10 years ago might have been um might have been a a film you know in terms of the type of drama it is.

20:46 So how does it change the way you think about greenlighting films? >> Uh it's I mean it's obviously it's very complex media fragmentation is what we're all talking about and it makes it all very complicated and very unpredictable. It's always been unpredictable. Maybe it's a little bit more unpredictable now.

21:01 I agree, Julia. I think everybody's focused on IP because there's built-in knowledge and the particular kind of IP that's even better is that which has fan bases. Spider-Man for us for example, because then you've got loud advocates right away, right? So that kind of thing is definitely your focus. But the other focus, sinners is an example of this or aur filmmakers.

21:24 Right? So we've got a bit of both. So when you look at your slate, you look at it that way. There still are smaller movies that can do very well. It's just you've got to control the cost of them. We had one of them days u which came out a couple of months ago. Uh you know, and the the budget is set in a way that it's a very profitable movie.

21:42 So you have to be thoughtful about it. It's not one sizefits-all. >> Now Mike, you're not just doing Lord of the Rings TV series. You also now oversee uh MGM Studios, the Bond franchise, which is talk about familiar IP, but what is your overall strategy now? And how committed are you to the theatrical releases?

21:59 >> Um, we we've really, you know, we've been buying movies um for for 15 years, pay one movies, etc. And what we've learned over time is, you know, when a film is theatrically released, um it does actually put a patina on that movie. Um has to be a good movie, obviously. Um, and so we're we've really looked hard at this this question and and we're going to the answer short answer is we're going to do both.

22:21 We're committed to a a 15 film annual slate that we're going to we're going to do. Actually, we we had Cineacon presentation a month or so ago, and I think about 70% of the films we're putting out in this next year will be original IP. Um, they aren't they aren't remakes or sequels or uh reimagined um uh properties.

22:40 We'll do that, too. Um, but you know, I always like to say, you know, IP was always starts in someone's brain, right? And so, if you're going to have a studio or and a content pipeline over a long period of time, you need to develop new ideas. You need to have new storytellers coming in with that idea, those will be somebody some IP down the road that somebody may want to reimagine.

23:03 But we're we're committed to doing both. We'll probably do about 15 theatrically a year. We're building out an international distribution team today. Um, we'll probably do another 20 straight to streaming. Um, and you know, we find that that that both work really well. Um, it's hard to explain what we think about when we decide which one's going which direction.

23:22 Um, but uh, but that's something we're going to develop over time, but we really think this theatrical business has has a big future ahead of us. >> And so, you're bullish for the summer box office to come back. Um, this all ties into a conversation about breaking through uh breaking through creating a water cooler moment in an incredibly fragmented media market.

23:40 It's interesting thinking about how a show like The Diplomat on Netflix is seen around the world. So, on one hand, you have broader reach than ever. Um, but you also have this question of you and you have Billboards on Sunset Boulevard. I mean, how do you break through and make sure it's it's part of the conversation when there's so much competition not just on streaming, but also from content creators?

23:59 And this brings um uh segus to a question here from the audience is to what degree is the role of content creator part of reaching a younger audience and to what degree is the content they make competition for your own products. So it all ties together into this question of is the fragmentation is all the chatter on Tik Tok and Instagram does it come into play when you think about making a show like the diplomat go viral or is it just is it just noise?

24:28 Uh, no. I think is the is the is the short answer. I um all I can do is find something that I think is interesting and go enter into this process that can go sideways at so many different places. Like I'm doing a close collaboration, a creative collaboration with 250 people. So the idea can be good and the execution can go sideways at any point.

24:56 And so you've just got to find something that you are initially interested in and then try to pull together as many people who you feel are trustworthy and talented and and kind of jump in the river. Gaming it out. I mean all all of us have been you know trying for decades to to game it out and you know the thing about a viral success is that you don't know what's going to happen until it happens and you didn't see it coming otherwise it wouldn't get that name.

25:31 >> Yeah. >> And does it change the way you approach the project when you know that Netflix is going to be putting it on its homepage not just here in the US but around the world? I mean you certainly are shooting in a lot of different locations. >> We're shooting we shot some in London. We shot some in in Paris.

25:46 We're now we're based in New York and uh it's designed to be about the this country's relationship with the world and so we're hoping that the world is paying attention and uh that relationship is um changing so we still have plenty to write about. But uh it's a it's it's certainly you know a huge draw for me to Netflix that they have such a wide global audience.

26:17 It's nice to be able to know that um you know maybe there's a conversation happening on the front page about what America wants to do with the world and is doing with the world and we have an opportunity to deliver a slightly different message which is nice. And it seems like your show has had those reverberations internationally.

26:41 >> Yeah, we um I I heard recently from a a a Russian uh journalist that Russian dissident are watching pirated copies of of the diplomat and uh calling it um the Marshall Plan in Heels, triumph of of alliances over isolationism. You know, I I'm I'm glad that we can be a voice that says, "Yeah, there are still a lot of people here who think democracy is a thing." That uh as as I say, American entertainment is its most powerful export.

27:16 We will talk about the the tariff question later, but I want to just follow up on this question of whether you see the explosion of creator, you know, social media content as a tool, as a as competition, as a threat. Do you think about this when you're making a movie like Karate Kid? all all of that.

27:32 Actually, I think it's it's a bit of all of it. It takes up time for sure, particularly from younger audiences, which is a big focus of ours. Um, you know, so it definitely does, but it can be a very powerful tool. One of the trailers up there was for 28 years later, right? And that trailer has gone completely viral.

27:49 So, our marketing teams are very focused on it, but I think Danny Bole, the director, probably isn't that focused on the marketing of it. He's making a great movie, but our marketing department's focused tremendously on it and creators are a great vehicle to promote. >> And Pina, you're not programming the sports, but you're also thinking about what's going to run after all of the the sports that run on NBC.

28:12 >> How important is it to to focus on those live events, which are MSI TV, as a way to set up your programming, and how do you think about this creator economy? >> I Well, okay. So I I think to the creator economy question, the marketplace is very fragmented, much more fragmented than it's ever been.

28:33 People are consuming media, you know, differently. And the wonderful thing is however they'd like it. And I think our job is to bring that media to them wherever they are. So whether it's on broadcasts like a show like SVU where the average age of that show is 65 or on streaming where the average age of that show is 48 or Mishka Harate comes to the lot and I cannot walk past any 25 year old woman who doesn't know her and love her.

29:02 So clearly it's it's just about taking you know the the material and the and the show through all the you know all the different um parts of the ecosystem. Now about live, you know, as far as NBC's concerned, NBC Universal is concerned, we've been in the live business for, you know, uh, as long as anyone can remember, be it sports, you know, football, be it Macy's parade and July 4th parade, SNL, certainly Olympics, and we're evolving that uh, strategy over to streaming.

29:38 So I think if anyone watched the Paris Olympics, you know, especially on streaming, you see what that experience was like. So yeah, for us live is a big part of the equation because live is what creates a lot of times now monoculture and water cooler water cooler moments given that we're talking about the fragmented you know environment that streaming creates because you can watch your show at 2 a.m.

30:03 and I'll watch it at 7 p.m. But, you know, being able to to sort of aggregate everybody in one moment is we think an incredible tool that I think all the streamers are are getting into. And, you know, for better or for worse, like we all saw that Kendrick Lamar performance at the same time. And that's the power of live >> and it also ties into this shift towards a focus on ad supported streaming.

30:27 Um, because those live those ads in the live viewing are are probably the most valuable. Mike, what are you seeing in terms of your investment in in football? >> Yeah, well, I mean, just as Perina said, I think, you know, when you can aggregate audiences and and create, you know, it actually creates viral moments as well.

30:45 Um, you know, having live sport for us is not just driving Prime membership and and engagement in Prime, but also allows us to to become that first first stop that I mentioned earlier. We have partners that have lots of live sport as well. And so what we're trying to create is a is a is an environment where, you know, we have maybe not all of your sports today, but we have a lot of it and and you can find it on on Prime.

31:09 But just like traditional media, we do use it to bring in an audience, introduce them to new programming, you know, take them from the game to the show. We're doing uh about half our football games, uh we have an Amazon Music Live concert right after. So we're we're doing the same things. So what I what's what's ironic about what we're talking about is that what we're really talking about is TV.

31:31 Um we're talking about a distribution streaming is really a different way to distribute programming to customers living rooms. And and what I actually think is going to interesting conversation is over the next I'd say I used to say five years I think it might be three. Um with with all of us streamers putting ads in programming um we're also looking to to longer seasons.

31:54 So, we were talking about eight episodes for The Diplomat. We're doing shows that are 10, 12, 13 episodes. I wouldn't be shocked if we're not doing 22 again. Um, and and I think everything is going to blend together. Just because you're streaming a show doesn't mean you didn't like Grey's Anatomy or you didn't like um, you know, Law and Order.

32:11 Those are some of the highest watched shows on streaming. So, I can actually see the the the industry evolving to where you still will have this super premium, you know, \$20 million an episode, eight eight episode order, but I think you're also going to see a lot of big long running series as well that emerge because people like them.

32:30 People just haven't, you know, we just aren't feeding them enough of that originally on streaming. What what Casey did with the pit's a good example of that, right? I mean, that is a show that literally could be on on on NBC and and I think you're going to see a lot of this experimentation happening both with scripted, unscripted.

32:47 Um, we're talking about creator economy. We did a big deal with with Jimmy Donaldson. So, we have the Beast Games. We're going to do a couple more seasons of that, I think, soon. and and um that's a big performance, you know, that's a big uh reality, you know, competition show essentially that he's been doing online that we've now adapted for for streaming and television.

33:08 And I can see I can see more of that taking place for the future, too. >> So, YouTube creators, YouTube stars are coming on to what's now TV, a rebundling of these apps, longer seasons, ads is part of the equation. Sounds like what's old is new again. >> Yeah. Well, you know, it turns out you have to pay for this in some way, right?

33:27 So you right and so I think it was inevitable you know I I ran Hulu for 5 years and we started Hulu as an adup supported streaming service. It's just I it's it's ironic that it kind of went from that to adree and now we're kind of merging it back in. But I think the key to all of this is choice for customers, right?

33:46 So you know if you choose to have ads and pay a le a lower price, you have that option virtually everywhere now. >> And if you if you don't, you can you can pay more and not have the ads. And I think I think that bargain is much more clear for customers. >> Yeah. And Casey, for so long, you ran HBO, no ads.

34:00 You didn't have to think about ads. You also now oversee Max. Ads are a piece of this. And of course, we have the upfronts coming up next week. Curious from any of you who have that ad exposure, what you're expecting to hear from advertisers um about demand. There's so much economic uncertainty. There was a lot of concern that there was going to be softness in the ad market this year, but Bob Iger sounded pretty bullish this morning.

34:22 Well, they they do chop me out the upfronts. Uh I I think what Mike said was key, though. Um it's the choice. Consumers didn't have the choice before if they wanted to have ads or not ads. That's a real that that's the real um change here. So either way, I'm worried about the shows creatively. Um, and however they get monetized, I kind of leave to smarter people than me to worry about.

34:55 So, I'll come out to the upfront and talk about the shows that are coming up and all that stuff. Um, but I think the the real the real difference here between broadcast television is if you were annoyed by ads, you didn't have the choice to say, "I'll pay extra to never see another ad again." Um, so that's that's really what I mean obviously HBO was doing that on a smaller scale.

35:19 Netflix came on a much larger scale and gave consumers that choice to eventually to decide whether they wanted ads or not. >> G give us your sense what do you expect to see at the upfront. >> I uh well >> not in terms of content but in terms of ad demand. >> Sure. Yeah. Um yeah our upfront NBC upfront is uh Monday Monday morning at 10.

35:39 um you know from talking to our ad sales department they're also very bullish in in uh anticipating there'll be some you know slight gains and I think what we're seeing is um you know as I said from the broadcast perspective linear perspective it's still the greatest aggregator of eyeballs in one place you know when I I and and I'm on both sides of this and I think you need both sides of it I I I say that NBC Universal We're in the yes and business.

36:09 We're in streaming. Yes. And we're in broadcast. And where, you know, you may read that some streaming show, which is a success, was able to aggregate over, you know, six and a half million viewers in five days, which is considered a success. I can also say well you know Chicago Fire aggregates six and a half million viewers in one hour and then it adds streaming on top of it.

36:38 So I think what we're seeing is um for our business where as I said it's about the enterprise using both broadcast the linear business and the streaming business that we think that's a really good business and that you know advertisers um continue to want to be in it. >> Mike, what's it what's it looking like?

36:58 are you going to grab more market share from the the linear network? >> We're sort of the new kids on the block I think on this one. But so our second upfront will be to Monday night actually. Um and you know I think what we've created is a you know a fullfunnel advertising business where you know for many years we had you know Amazon.com and digital advertising business that's growing rapidly.

37:17 Um, but now that we've added television on top of that, we we can we can sell, you know, brand advertising all the way down to the last click purchase, you know, or sponsored products. Um, so we we expect to grow pretty rapidly again this year. Um, uh, I think it's going to be a pretty good ad market.

37:34 I think, you know, ad ad buyers want to tamp it down, ad sellers want to tamp it up, but I I think we're going to we're all going to find that it's it's a pretty robust marketplace. So, um, shifting over from ad buying to the risk of tariffs or taxes raising your costs. Um, earlier this week, the president said he wanted to or I'm sorry, on Sunday he was interested in putting a 100% tax on films shot overseas, which is a complicated thing because sometimes things are shot partially overseas.

38:01 Unclear if that would be including things that were already produced. He then walked it back and said he would want to work with the industry to make sure this is preserving American jobs. Whatever ends up happening here, I think it does raise a question about production shifting overseas. Deborah, you just mentioned how your show shot partially in Europe, partially here.

38:21 Um, I don't know where the sound if there's soundstages or you're shooting all location. Um, but there's an amazing stat that in the first quarter this year, all series or films with a budget of \$40 million of all series and films with a budget of \$40 million or more, 60% shot overseas in the first quarter, which is up from the past couple of years.

38:40 um curious to look at this as a broader question of is it a problem that production is moved overseas and what would you think would be effective to bring production back to the US? What do you think Robbie? >> It's yeah it's a big issue obviously. Um you know I think start by saying that I mean as maybe obvious to some of us in the room the US is so dominant in entertainment.

39:02 I mean we're a massive exporter of entertainment. I think it's like 15 billion or something like that net positive and there over two million entertainment jobs. So we're very very strong in it. I think in terms of production leaving here, it's almost more a California issue honestly than a US issue.

39:18 So while it's true a lot of production has left the United States, it's even worse for California. And there are a lot of people including our companies that are working on this with the state government and trying to come up with different bills that will help. Um the issue is primarily driven by economics.

39:35 You know, oftentimes, yes, it's things are shot outside the United States and we need to keep doing that. We shot The Woman King in Africa. No matter what the tax incentives are, we're going to shoot that movie there. So oftentimes that's what drives it. The incentives themselves, yes. I mean, if the incentives are stronger in the United States, and they are in many states, we'll shoot here.

39:55 I think what's often forgotten in our business is the margins are pretty modest in any studio. There's something like 10%. So it's not a business that relies on an enormous well of profit and producers will tend to locate in the place that's efficient. So the more we can make the US efficient the better.

40:17 >> Yeah. And there's been some talk of a national tax credit. One of the questions on this topic because we have a couple on this topic here says uh it comes from the largest owner of soundstages globally at Hackman Capital saying what could we be doing differently at the infrastructure level to move the needle.

40:30 I guess Deborah, do you have a perspective on this or is it really about what makes sense for the for the show? >> We're going overseas because we have a show set in London and we want castles and palaces and uh we don't have enough of them here. I think uh >> build more castles >> if you would like to build one.

40:50 Uh yeah, I mean the facilities here and the talent pool here is remains unmatched. Um, we've had great experiences overseas, but you still don't get the kind of uh designers, crews, uh, crafts people that you do here anywhere else. So, this is always my first choice. But if you need Buckingham Palace, you got to go get it.

41:18 >> Yeah. Um, maybe Jeni Jen AI could create that eventually. But Casey or or Microplina, if you could speak to John Void and the president, what would you tell them to do? >> Well, I I I I actually agree. I I think it is a big California issue because the talent is here, the infrastructure is here. One of the issues we we have a number of shows including hacks uh and um what else do we we have a bunch of shows that are shooting here, but the issue becomes when you're trying to plan because um it's capped.

41:49 You can't plan you have to get into a lottery and you're not sure if your show is going to get the tax break or not. So that uncertainty makes it very difficult, you know, when you're looking at that versus Atlanta versus Canada and the others have um you're guaranteed the um incentive. If California would address that, I that would make a big difference because because we are the entertainment industry is based here and there is a big right um there's a lot of in infrastructure here but the uncertainty around that incentive has been problematic to plan >> and the governor's working to more than double the tax credit to \$750 million that should is expected to go through this summer.

42:34 But the question, you know, Mike, is that enough or is there still too much uncertainty tied up in that? Yeah, I think it's a pretty complicated, you know, uh, issue and I do think it, as Robbie said, it's it's California. Um, you know, we obviously had a labor labor issue a couple years ago. Um, so we've had we've had a a series of things from the pandemic to the strikes to to to to those things that have have sort of driven a lot of things out.

42:56 But as somebody that makes a lot of things, we we'd prefer, you know, we we actually rent our lot from from Hackman. He's here somewhere. Hello. um uh raise our lower our rent would be helpful. But um uh but but I think you know it's it's a great day when you can walk out of your office and walk down to the set and say hi to your talent and see what's happening.

43:16 So I think our preference generally would be to do it in California, to do it in LA. I think a lot of our, you know, our showrunners, our our directors, actors, they a lot of them live here. So So I think it's a preference. Um but I do think, you know, having the guaranteed ex incentive so you don't have to get in the lottery.

43:33 I think, you know, there's a lot of debate about above the line. Uh, can we can we get some of that? It's not that we're taking money and giving it to um Tom Cruz or somebody. It's it actually does drive the economy in in because they're going to get their their their fee no matter where they go. Um, and so I think having having some of those discussions I think would be helpful.

43:53 >> Perlene, any recommendations as they think as the administration thinks about this? I I I leave it to more educated people on this topic than me to give recommendations, but you know, everything my colleagues have said is absolutely true. You know, we have eight series shooting on the Universal lot.

44:11 That's a dream to be able to just go see your show and not have to get on a plane for either five hours or 15 hours. And so it's it's not as if we wake up to say, "Oh, I'd love to go to Budapest today." I it's you know but our objective is always you want to give the producers, the writers, the storytellers whatever resources they need to make and tell the stories they want and um and that includes location if the story requires it and it includes resources because you want all the money to be as much as you can on screen and if that may or may not mean that you can afford it locally or somewhere else.

44:49 Speaking of sorry that do showrunners want executives right next door >> to come down and visit you? >> Always great to see you. >> You are welcome at any time. >> No, I mean it's I I I would rather be near people I oddly um I understand don't have an adversarial relationship with with my executives.

45:15 So I don't mind when they stop by. Uh it's Everybody's happier when you're shooting at home. >> Um, speaking of resources to storytellers, we have to talk about AI. So many of the questions submitted by the audience are about AI, its impact on storytelling and its impact on all of your work. Obviously, AI was at the center of so much conflict for the actors and writer strikes um a couple years ago um and there were there was resolution there, but I'm curious how each of you see AI playing out as a tool, as a threat, um as an opportunity.

45:51 And Deborah, what about you? How are you using AI now? >> I'm not at the moment. I imagine maybe five years from now there may be some pieces of the process that involve AI. I don't I'm I'm not super worried about my job disappearing, but there are I hire researchers and I uh you know entry level writers who it's an apprenticeship system.

46:14 They learn because they're in the writer room and they're watching what the rest of the writers do. If those jobs are eliminated by AI and it does look like uh there's a serious threat that there will be, I I don't know how we're going to train people. >> Yeah, I I would be more on the tool side. I think, >> you know, when you look at each each part of a production process, including research, um I actually think it's a tool, and I think that's how we're generally looking at it, not just with our storytellers, but also with within our product and technology as well.

46:47 It's um it's kind of a force mult multiplier for the for the for the human and and and we're we're working hard at building tools for whether it's software developers or um you know we we did a a show called House of David um that premiered a few months ago and about 10% of the scenes used some bit of AI generative AI to help with CGI and help with other things that actually allowed us to increase the production values and lower the cost and so and that were there were you know people working on that.

47:19 So I I actually think um it's not it's it's obviously much more powerful tool, but I can remember when when when the internet launched and it was like people were should I should I use that to do my research or should I go to the library or should I look at the encyclopedia? I think it's a version of that obviously more powerful.

47:36 Um and so we do have to keep an eye on what how is it actually being used. Um, but in my experience, it's much more our our partners that are using and pushing hard on using more and pushing us on how can we help them uh create more tools. >> Robbie, how are you? >> Kind of the same. I mean, as a tool, um, we're using it more in what I'd call the back office than we are in anything creative.

48:01 One thing that's causing us to be even doubly cautious, right? There's obviously the ethical use of AI because we're talking about humans, but we're also being cautious because of IP protection. So we're we're going at a very measured pace really actually using AI in the finance department and the legal department and other places before we go deep into any creative area.

48:21 Um so cautious for now. >> What about like visual effects? It's I've seen some pretty dramatic visual effects demos using AI that seem like they would really cut down costs. I I think that first of all I think the history of technology is always been that um one you can't put the genie back in the bottle and two it's about how we embrace it and we use it um you know to our for our benefit.

48:49 Our point of view is we want to work with our producers and storytellers to figure out how can they harness AI because we can't we can't just assume it's not you know going to be a part of our lives. So and we've been using technology as you said CGI virtual production. So yeah, this is another tool that whether it's in the post process or in the actual production process could be really beneficial for um you know producers and writers and what have you.

49:23 So it I think it's really just about we have to figure out how to use it to our benefit. Casey, you haven't said anything on AI. >> Uh I largely agree with everybody. I think during the strike the the kind of idea that I think got overblown and something I have no interest in is the idea that you could you generative AI that studios could use generative AI to replace writers and in some cases actors that I just you know has I have no interest in it but I I know writers who are using AI to say give me five ideas for you know an opening scene.

50:04 Now, they all may be bad ideas, but if the writers want to if the writers feel that um is a useful tool to them, that's fine. That's great. And I I think when AI is such a broad term these days, I think what most people are afraid of is generative AI. And I agree. I I just don't I don't see replacing humans in the creative process, mostly because all of AI is based on what's come before.

50:30 >> So, it's derivative. It's a >> it's derivative. And that talent is really like what is an original take? What is what have you never seen before? What is a different take? What is a different voice? So, you know, I I think um a human voice and human talent is always going to be necessary, but you using the term more broadly, using it in post-production visual effects, of course, that you know that's always been where a lot of technology has advanced in in those areas.

50:57 We're almost out of time, but this segus to a question that was asked uh also a couple times um by the audience about the use of data in storytelling. You all have more access to data, how people are consuming content, what they're consuming, what they're watching on Crunchyroll for 15 minutes before they swipe to the next thing.

51:16 Um how long they're watching an episode. Do they click to watch the next episode? Um what happens after they watch a live sporting event on Amazon than ever before? My question is, how does all that data impact creative decision-making? >> For me, not at all. We have never at HBO, we don't test shows when we decide to pick something up.

51:38 I don't do, you know, there's not a lot of research to say this could do well. This could, you know, it's never been a part of the process. Certainly, in terms of how things perform, absolutely. But in terms of creative decision-making, it's a little bit what we're talking about with AI. It's all based on what has worked in the past.

51:56 It's never going to tell you for sure what's going to work in the future. Um, I don't, you know, I I I have heard I have friends who've worked elsewhere where they get reports about, you know, people tuned out here or there or whatever. I don't really care, you know. I I think it has to be the creative uh the the storyteller's decision.

52:14 Um, we can give notes, we can give our opinion, we can debate, but I I you know, leaving those decisions to data seems um like a bad idea to me. >> Deborah, do you look at the data and how does it impact your approach? >> I hear little bits of it filtered down from from Netflix occasionally. I love hearing it.

52:41 I don't I don't I'm I'm not opposed to having more information. It never really changes the process because at the end of the day, you're going to write the story that you that you're going to write, but I I don't mind having more information. >> Robbie, how do you think about it? >> Very much along these lines.

52:57 It's descriptive. You know, you know there's an issue somewhere, but it can't tell you what to do. It's not prescriptive. So, I I think it's it's a starting point. There's a ton of data, but it doesn't tell you what what's not being shown in the data. So, you can't be ruled by it. >> Yeah. >> Mike, were you gonna say something?

53:16 >> I was gonna say for us, it's it's directional. You know, it can point you in the direction of of but but you you have to be careful but about false precision as well. It's backward as as has been stated, it's backward. But I think the more information you have, the better. But I think you do have to rely on the judgment of uh and the creativity of people to to harness that information and come up with the next idea.

53:39 >> We're almost out of time, but I'd love to get one prediction from each of you. Yesterday, I was on the stage moderating a panel about AI, and I asked for what things were going to look like in three years. I feel like the entertainment industry, we may have a better sense of than what uh generative AI and AI will look like um in three years, but to get a sense of sort of what the biggest change you think is going to be.

53:56 Is it consolidation? Is it the shift towards um more more ad supported streaming? Is it a bigger box office, a smaller one? What's your one prediction? And we won't hold you to it if if you're wrong in three years. Robbie, what do you think? >> I was going to I was going to give you a prediction on every single one of those.

54:12 Um but I'll pick one. I think we talked so much about consolidation. I think there'll also be quite a lot of deconsolidation. >> Spinco, I'm part of Spinoco. Sorry, Versent. SpinCo is one example, but I think there'll be more. >> Okay. I I I mean everybody has been predicting consolidation for the past couple years.

54:28 Um so eventually it'll be correct, but I do think there'll be consolidation whether it's through bundling or joint ventures or actual consolidation. But I think it's pretty clear that there's still a lot of product and not everybody is monetizing it profitably. So um there will be a move to solve that in some way.

54:52 >> But does that mean less product being produced? a shrinking of the ecosystem. >> I think that's why I say it could be joint venture, could be bundling, um any of the above. >> Deborah, how's your job going to look different in three years? >> Oh, I don't know. I I feel like maybe the movie industry is going to be a little bit healthier and the the the kind of movies for adults and the mid-budget.

55:15 Uh, I feel like with all of you guys putting those on uh TV platforms and and not just in theaters, I think it feels like the juice is coming back into that world. >> I do think I think the good news for Deb and all talented writers and creators as Mike said, this is all about distribution. We have not gone to um Netflix, Amazon, Apple, all the new players went to TV writers, movie writers, actors, directors.

55:50 So the good news is I, you know, if you continue to do your stellar work, you'll be fine. It's all of us who have to figure out how to how to, you know, bundle it or make money from it, but you'll be good. >> Mike, what's your prediction? I would just say I think with the advance of technology, AI I think was this was one of the parts of that question.

56:10 I just think customer experiences are just going to get better. They're they're they're getting better. Our our our app is much better today than it was a year ago. Three years from now, it's going to be orders of magnitude better. And I think that's just going to pervade the rest of of entertainment.

56:27 I think that as technology continues to fragment us that I think uh the importance of broadcast and linear will become more and more clear as the perhaps the one big aggregator still left. So >> well we are out of time but we're going to leave it on that note. Maybe what's old is new again. We'll see.

56:46 Um Pina, Mike, Deborah, Casey, and Robbie, thank you so much for joining us for this conversation. Thank you. >> Thank you so