# It's highly nuanced, and I'll explain why it's not

# URL

https://x.com/aleabitoreddit/status/2048129936813428922

# Content

It's highly nuanced, and I'll explain why it's not late, but late to some:

Photonics is the newest supercycle (maybe H1 into H2 2025 was the start).

Then there's many different architectural changes in each supercycle:

-> \$LITE, \$COHR, Innolight, \$AXTI and these names led the first

I did a thesis post on mentioning all four of them as the largest beneficiaries (all are up 500-1000% 1Y)

-> \$AAOI, \$JBL and others types of names are benefit immensely as the transitional bridge (eg. 1.6T pluggable)

-> \$SIVE, Celestial, Ayar, \$POET are others future gens eg. CPO (what I'm focusing on now)

-> VisEra, QD Laser, \$ALMU and others are likely going to be future gens (quantum dot, different packaging types, etc) if you fast forward 4 years.

Of course, \$LITE does everything. \$AXTI will be used for everything.

But the amount of pure play exposure for each architectural shift in each mini supercycle is different.

For example, inp usage with quantum dot is still there, but less used. Or DFB laser arrays for CPO instead of EML.

There's probably still 50%+ with \$LITE and \$COHR. And you're a little on the "late" side of things.

But you're extremely early to new architecture generations.

What I'm trying to do is point regular retail investors into the direction of new gold mines for free.

Before institutions figure out sooner or later by paying \$20k for equity research reports.

[Quoted: https://x.com/rabbitrun97o/status/2048125596836778424]@aleabitoreddit Missed the opportunity to make money by investing in photonics. Do you think there is 50% upside from here?

[Thread continued]@beauty\_oe マイケル・バーリは、\$PLTR にシャンプーの「ヘッド＆ショルダー」チャートを描き、AI国防請負業者のバリュエーションを中小企業向けマーケティングのHubspotと比較した。

Xで影響力のある人たちと絡めば絡むほど、彼らがいかに何も分かっていないかを思い知らされる。

[Thread continued]@Quantrarian52 I’m a fan of \$ASX? And converted their reports over accelerating CPO to H2 2026.

[Thread continued]@workoutwithp \$AEHR long term is very early. The only started volume ramp with one customer…

And others will pick up (like their t1 optical transceiver one) over the next few years.

For current valuations, I’d say it’s more priced in near term.